README.md, before:

Footswitch
----------

Command line utility for programming foot switches sold by [PCsensor][1]. It works for both single pedal devices and three pedal devices. All supported devices have `vendorId:productId` = `0c45:7403` and can be listed with `lsusb`:

    $ lsusb -d 0c45:7403
    Bus 002 Device 051: ID 0c45:7403 Microdia 

The same kind of foot switches are used for building the popular [VIM Clutch][2].

Building
--------

The program is using the [libusb-1.0][3] library and should work on all major platforms. To build on Debian/Ubuntu:

    sudo apt-get install libusb-1.0-0-dev
    git clone https://github.com/rgerganov/footswitch.git
    cd footswitch
    make
    sudo make install

Usage
-----
    footswitch [-123] [-r] [-s <string>] [-S <raw_string>] [-ak <key>] [-m <modifier>] [-b <button>] [-xyw <XYW>]
       -r          - read all pedals
       -1          - program the first pedal
       -2          - program the second pedal (default)
       -3          - program the third pedal
       -s string   - append the specified string
       -S rstring  - append the specified raw string (hex numbers delimited with spaces)
       -a key      - append the specified key
       -k key      - write the specified key
       -m modifier - ctrl|shift|alt|win
       -b button   - mouse_left|mouse_middle|mouse_right
       -x X        - move the mouse cursor horizontally by X pixels
       -y Y        - move the mouse cursor vertically by Y pixels
       -w W        - move the mouse wheel by W

    You cannot mix -sSa options with -kmbxyw options for one and the same pedal

Examples
--------
    footswitch -r
        read the persisted function in each pedal and print it on the console
    footswitch -k a
        program the second pedal to print the letter 'a' (also work for single pedal devices);
        as a general rule you don't need to specify -1, -2 or -3 if you have only one pedal
    footswitch -1 -k a -2 -k b -3 -k c
        program the first pedal to print 'a', second pedal to print 'b' and third pedal to print 'c'
    footswitch -1 -k esc -2 -k enter
        program the first pedal as Escape key and the second pedal as Enter key
    footswitch -1 -m ctrl -k a -3 -m alt -k f4
        program the first pedal as Ctrl+a and the third pedal as Alt+F4
    footswitch -m ctrl -b mouse_middle
        program the second pedal as Ctrl+<middle_mouse_click>
    footswitch -s 'hello world'
        program the second pedal to print 'hello world'
    footswitch -s 'hello' -s ' ' -s 'world'
        this will also program the second pedal to print 'hello world';
        you can specify multiple -s options and each option will append to the resulting string
    footswitch -a esc -a i
        program the second pedal to produce Escape and then the letter 'i'
    footswitch -s ls -a enter
        program the second pedal to print 'ls' and then hit Enter
    footswitch -S '29 C'
        program the second pedal with the specified 'raw' string (hex numbers delimited with spaces);
        you can find the hex code for each key at http://www.freebsddiary.org/APC/usb_hid_usages.php
    footswitch -1 -x 10 -2 -w 15 -3 -y -10
        program first pedal to move the mouse cursor 10 pixels left;
        second pedal to move mouse wheel 15 units up;
        third pedal to move the mouse cursor 10 pixels right

Authors
-------
[Radoslav Gerganov](mailto:rgerganov@gmail.com) and [Daniel Manjarres](mailto:danmanj@gmail.com)

[1]: http://www.pcsensor.com/index.php?_a=viewCat&catId=2
[2]: https://github.com/alevchuk/vim-clutch
[3]: http://www.libusb.org/

Commit message:

Replace libusb with hidapi to support OSX

README.md, after:

Footswitch
----------

Command line utility for programming foot switches sold by [PCsensor][1]. It works for both single pedal devices and three pedal devices. All supported devices have `vendorId:productId` = `0c45:7403` and can be listed with `lsusb`:

    $ lsusb -d 0c45:7403
    Bus 002 Device 051: ID 0c45:7403 Microdia 

The same kind of foot switches are used for building the popular [VIM Clutch][2].

Building
--------

The program is using the [hidapi][3] library and should work on Linux and OSX. To build on Linux:

    sudo apt-get install libhidapi-dev
    git clone https://github.com/rgerganov/footswitch.git
    cd footswitch
    make
    sudo make install

To build on OSX:

    brew install hidapi
    git clone https://github.com/rgerganov/footswitch.git
    cd footswitch
    make
    sudo make install

Usage
-----
    footswitch [-123] [-r] [-s <string>] [-S <raw_string>] [-ak <key>] [-m <modifier>] [-b <button>] [-xyw <XYW>]
       -r          - read all pedals
       -1          - program the first pedal
       -2          - program the second pedal (default)
       -3          - program the third pedal
       -s string   - append the specified string
       -S rstring  - append the specified raw string (hex numbers delimited with spaces)
       -a key      - append the specified key
       -k key      - write the specified key
       -m modifier - ctrl|shift|alt|win
       -b button   - mouse_left|mouse_middle|mouse_right
       -x X        - move the mouse cursor horizontally by X pixels
       -y Y        - move the mouse cursor vertically by Y pixels
       -w W        - move the mouse wheel by W

    You cannot mix -sSa options with -kmbxyw options for one and the same pedal

Examples
--------
    footswitch -r
        read the persisted function in each pedal and print it on the console
    footswitch -k a
        program the second pedal to print the letter 'a' (also work for single pedal devices);
        as a general rule you don't need to specify -1, -2 or -3 if you have only one pedal
    footswitch -1 -k a -2 -k b -3 -k c
        program the first pedal to print 'a', second pedal to print 'b' and third pedal to print 'c'
    footswitch -1 -k esc -2 -k enter
        program the first pedal as Escape key and the second pedal as Enter key
    footswitch -1 -m ctrl -k a -3 -m alt -k f4
        program the first pedal as Ctrl+a and the third pedal as Alt+F4
    footswitch -m ctrl -b mouse_middle
        program the second pedal as Ctrl+<middle_mouse_click>
    footswitch -s 'hello world'
        program the second pedal to print 'hello world'
    footswitch -s 'hello' -s ' ' -s 'world'
        this will also program the second pedal to print 'hello world';
        you can specify multiple -s options and each option will append to the resulting string
    footswitch -a esc -a i
        program the second pedal to produce Escape and then the letter 'i'
    footswitch -s ls -a enter
        program the second pedal to print 'ls' and then hit Enter
    footswitch -S '29 C'
        program the second pedal with the specified 'raw' string (hex numbers delimited with spaces);
        you can find the hex code for each key at http://www.freebsddiary.org/APC/usb_hid_usages.php
    footswitch -1 -x 10 -2 -w 15 -3 -y -10
        program first pedal to move the mouse cursor 10 pixels left;
        second pedal to move mouse wheel 15 units up;
        third pedal to move the mouse cursor 10 pixels right

Author
-------
[Radoslav Gerganov](mailto:rgerganov@gmail.com)

Contributors
-------
* [Daniel Manjarres](mailto:danmanj@gmail.com)
* Meng Zhang (wsxiaoys)

[1]: http://www.pcsensor.com/index.php?_a=viewCat&catId=2
[2]: https://github.com/alevchuk/vim-clutch
[3]: http://www.signal11.us/oss/hidapi/
